DECEMBER 4TH - SHONAN PERSONAL
INSTRUCTION CRAM SCHOOL
Thanks for today, Mr. Sakuta.
Yeah. Just don't forget to go
over what we reviewed today.
You don't gotta remind me.
-[grunts] See ya.
-[thuds]
You too, Mr. Sakuta.
That homework I gave you?
Don't forget about it, okay?
Then I'll say this is homework
from me to you.
Please think about what kind
of puberty syndrome it is
and figure it out.
Man, I'm in a bind.
Azusagawa?
Could I get your advice
on something?
Huh?
[♪ opening theme song playing]
RASCAL DOES NOT DREAM
OF SANTA CLAUS
Well, then, what did you
want to talk about?
Yeah. Actually...
What's the matter? Did someone
ask you out or something?
[gasps]
For real?
Who was it?
It's my student.
Oh.
Toranosuke Kasai.
How did you figure it out?
I mean, the guy's aura
was basically screaming
"I love Futaba."
When was this?
Yesterday. In my classroom.
What led up to him asking?
I got the feeling that he hasn't
been able to concentrate
on studying lately.
I could see that something
was weighing on his mind.
So I asked him what's wrong.
Okay. Did you give him
a response?
I couldn't.
He said, "You don't have
to reply right now
and ran off.
I see.
What do you think
I should do here?
I think you should
follow your heart, Futaba.
I never even thought about it.
Then you can take
this opportunity
to figure your thoughts out.
Dragging your feelings
for Kunimi forever
isn't doing you any favors.
I'm not dragging those feelings.
[MAI] I made a reservation
for the inn at Hakone.
Oh, you did?
For the 24th?
Right. But since you're
going on that date
with your cute new student
I'm not sure
if you can still go or not.
I'll be going, no doubt.
[sighs]
I just have to make sure to
finish my homework before then.
DECEMBER 9TH
[sighs]
They're everywhere lately.
[SAKUTA] Hmm?
What are you talking about?
Couples flaunting their love.
Lovers' season is coming up
with the rush
of incoming events.
What rush of events
are you talking about?
I mean, there's Christmas Eve
and Christmas Day.
Wouldn't those just
be considered as one holiday?
Then New Year's Eve
and New Year's Day.
Then there's Setsubun.
Do couples
celebrate that, though?
Oh...
Whoa, dude. What's the matter?
I'm gonna cheat
on my homework a bit.
[sighs]
What are you doing over there?
I'm trying to film
video materials
for my Christmas song.
-[clatters]
-[girl groans]
Should I give you a hand?
Okay. Then just hit record
and follow me.
Is it all right
if I talk to you?
I'm only using the video
from this, so it's fine.
But no troublesome topics, okay?
In that case
about Sara Himeji's
puberty syndrome?
Who is that?
She's one of my students.
And why would
I know that, exactly?
Because apparently
that she has a case
of puberty syndrome.
Okay, and?
If it was a present
from you, Kirishima
I thought you might
know something about it.
No clue.
But you knew about Hirokawa
and Akagi, though, didn't you?
That's because they go
to this university.
I guess I failed at cheating
on my homework.
Thanks, though.
I got some good footage here.
Well, whenever you need
a cameraman
I'm just a phone call away.
Really?
I'll hold you to that then.
I'm livestreaming on the 24th.
Meet here at 4:00 p.m.
No, I've got plans
on that day!
See you then!
Please don't make the 24th
even more complicated
than it already is.
DECEMBER 10TH
Hello and welcome
This is Mai Sakurajima.
-Um, Mr. Azusagawa?
-Huh?
Sorry to stop you.
Oh, hey. Kasai, right?
Do you mind if I take
a little bit of your time?
It's okay, but me?
Instead of Futaba?
So, what's this all about?
It's Sara.
No, I mean, Miss Himeji.
Just please watch out for her.
What am I watching out for?
Mr. Azusagawa
who's been put in charge
of Sara.
Oh, I mean, Miss Himeji.
I think it's okay to address her
by name for now.
Oh, okay.
If you're talking about
the professor in charge of her
before me, I know about him.
Do you know why she switched
instructors as well?
From what I heard
it's because
he fell in love with her.
Before that, the instructor
who was in charge of Sara first
also got swapped out
for the same reason.
Huh?
And that's not all.
I've heard there are several
boys at our high school
who have asked Sara out.
Well, she does seem
quite popular.
But if you're really
that worried
about other guys flocking
to her like that
why don't you
look out for her yourself?
I can't do that.
Sara and I are actually
next door neighbors
and we used to play together
a lot when we were little kids.
So, she's a childhood friend?
Yes, I guess you could say that.
And so, you see, I...
Until middle school
I honestly thought
I was in love with Sara.
But then, one day
what I had originally thought
were romantic feelings
weren't even close to how
it feels to being truly in love.
And that's because you fell
in love with Futaba, right?
Yes.
Huh? Uh...
Hold on. How'd you...
You were emitting
a lovey-dovey aura
when asking her for help
at the cram school.
[grunts nervously]
Futaba's a formidable opponent
Uh, okay.
That's not what I wanted
to talk about right now.
So, let's see if I got
the story straight.
Ever since that day
when you dumped Himeji--
I did not dump her.
For practical purposes, you did.
And now you're worried
because you dumped her
Himeji's oddly popular with guys
for some reason.
Yeah.
That's why I wanted to ask you
to please watch out for her.
But why are you consulting me?
Well, I tried consulting
with Kunimi
but then he told me
that I should count on you.
Kunimi only says stuff
he doesn't need to say.
[SAKUTA] Do you have
Futaba's class today?
Yes. But actually
I'm not pursuing
Miss Futaba anymore.
Why is that?
You know about the dreaming tag
that's trending, right?
Well, I had a dream
the other night
that Miss Futaba dumped me
on Christmas Eve.
The dreaded 24th strikes again.
So, what did Futaba say
in the dream?
She told me, "I can't date
one of my students."
SHONAN PERSONAL INSTRUCTION
CRAM SCHOOL
And you're giving up
just like that?
If I'm being honest with you
After having a dream like that
it's like I'm thinking about her
even more now.
If it were me
I'd say, "If I'm accepted
to my first-choice university
please date me."
-Uh...
-Of course
only if you're serious
about Futaba.
Uh, okay. I'll do my best.
Huh? My apologies.
I have to get going now.
[Sakuta sighs]
Azusagawa.
Hey, Futaba.
What were you talking
to Kasai about?
He told me they're
childhood friends.
Wait, what? Who is?
Kasai and Himeji, apparently.
So we had a little chat
about it.
You say anything unnecessary?
I only said the necessary stuff.
That's probably
what was unnecessary.
-Huh?
-Mr. Sakuta!
[panting]
My test, I aced it.
Huh?
That sure does me in.
My lesson plan today
was to go over the problems
you guys got wrong
on your exams.
Aren't you going
to compliment me?
Congrats. You did a great job.
Oh, go on ahead.
Well, we're going the same way.
Chilly night, isn't it?
It is.
Yes, it is.
RASCAL DOES NOT DREAM
OF SANTA CLAUS
Yoshiwa.
You can solve that problem
with what we talked about
earlier.
Come on, Mr. Sakuta
Hold on a second.
After I'm done with Yoshiwa.
Hey, Yamada, you want me
-to teach you some things?
-What?
That's a bit
of a harsh reaction.
No, I didn't mean that
like I didn't want you to.
Okay, then I'll teach you.
[Yamada whimpers]
You see, this problem here
isn't about cosine theorem.
If you use the sine theorem
Himeji, you shouldn't go
teasing your classmates
too much, all right?
Are you talking about Yamada?
And Yoshiwa as well.
Wow. You really care
about your students, don't you?
If the two of them
don't improve their grades
I'll be in serious trouble.
I understand.
I'll stop so I don't get
you in trouble.
That being said
have you properly finished up
the homework I gave you?
How about we chat outside?
I'm pretty hungry.
[gasps]
I've been wanting
the new doughnut
at the cafe
across from the station.
Care to treat me?
So, how are you going to spend
Christmas this year?
Like, do you have
anything fun planned?
If things turn out
like that dream we had
I'm gonna end up
going on a date with you.
Don't you think it's naughty
for you to be meddling
with one of your students?
Still, though
I wonder why we were together
in the first place.
That's what I'd like to know.
Do you have any ideas?
I think Mr. Sakuta was cheating
on his girlfriend.
Oh, sure. That's totally it.
Please don't sound so sarcastic.
Hmm?
Oh! [chuckles]
You know them?
Yeah. That girl's a friend
from my class.
And the guy with her is
a second-year who I worked with
on the committee
for the sports festival.
Himeji, do you have history
with that boy?
Oh, wow. Nothing gets
past you, Mr. Sakuta.
Mmm, tasty!
If you must know
he asked me to date him
about two months ago.
And what was your reply?
I rejected him saying I couldn't
date him at this point in time.
"At this point
But wasn't that
kind of horrible?
I mean, it's only been
two months.
Personally, I think
it's healthier for him
to get over you quickly
and move on
if there's no hopes
of you looking his way.
Is it even possible
to be so practical
after telling someone
you love them, though?
Well, if that's how
you feel about it
then are you still in love
with Kasai?
You talked to Tora.
Oh, sorry.
I mean, Kasai said something
to you, didn't he?
He said you were
childhood friends
and he's worried about you.
That's very sweet
but I think he should be
more concerned for himself.
He went and fell in love
with a difficult person
like Miss Futaba.
I'm sure she'll just dump him.
Though Kasai seems like
he's quite the popular type.
And a great guy.
Yeah, he's a really great guy.
I mean, I'm someone
that he dumped
and yet he's still
worrying about me.
Although when I found out
that the person he was
really in love with wasn't me
it made me hate him.
Honestly, I was shocked.
Everyone at school would say
we looked good together
and talked as if we were
an official couple.
After that, I felt like
the world I had seen until then
was all one big mistake
and I couldn't believe
in anything.
I felt uneasy
just stepping outside.
You mentioned before
that this was around
Golden Week, right?
Yes.
Then you developed
puberty syndrome
and that uneasiness got
completely resolved somehow?
That's right.
Is the fact that you've been
popular with guys recently
because of that, too?
Wow, Mr. Sakuta
you really did your homework
properly, didn't you?
Surprisingly
But you are incorrect.
Being super popular
isn't the nature
of my puberty syndrome.
I do think I'm more popular now
than before, though.
So, you mean you're having fun
even with puberty syndrome?
Tell me, Mr. Sakuta
do you not like me
being popular with guys?
No, I don't dislike it
or anything.
But realistically
even if dozens of people
ask you out
and hundreds of people
fawn over you
it's more than likely
that you won't be able
to obtain
what you really want, Himeji.
What is that supposed to mean?
I told you, I'm tremendously
happy right now.
There's nothing I want
in particular.
I'm sure being super popular
does have its benefits
but I believe there is something
more fortunate.
And what's that, exactly?
I think it's being with
the person I love the most
and knowing that I'm the person
they love the most.
Let me ask you again.
Be honest, Himeji.
Do you think you're still
in love with Kasai?
Even more than that
were you even in love with Kasai
to begin with?
Is this your way of telling me
that I'm in the same boat
as Kasai?
To be fair
kind of looks like you thought
you were a good couple
only because
other people said so.
Then tell me one more thing.
I wanna know
how can I love someone
like you do, Mr. Sakuta?
DECEMBER 12TH
[MAI] Hmm.
So you ended up teaching her
romance very attentively
down to the minute details.
I didn't go into any detail.
Sakuta, weren't you trying
to figure out
what the nature of that girl's
puberty syndrome was?
All for my sake?
Yeah, I was
because Mai is in danger.
So how does it end up that way?
-Whatcha talking about?
-Hmm?
About what falling in love
with someone is exactly.
Sounds philosophical.
You think so? It's instinct.
But what made you two
start a conversation like this?
The question was posed
by one of Sakura's cute
new students at cram school.
Ah.
I kind of get where
she's coming from, though.
I sometimes wonder
what love really is.
What exactly about Azusagawa
do you love, Mai?
How he loves me so immensely.
That's, like, a truth.
[MITO] I must say
How she has boys
at her beck and call?
No, I mean, more like
how she's enjoying the jealousy
she gets from other girls.
It shows that she really
loves herself that much.
More than she loves anyone else
I think she fell in love
with the idea of being loved
more so than actually falling
in love with someone else.
That's quite the comment from
a popular girl like you, Mito.
I am a woman who can
see the differences, so, yeah.
Then what do you think
I should do here?
Should I interpret that as
"How do I tell my cute student
how to be able to love someone
the same way I do?"
Right.
I think you should make her fall
in love with you, Azusagawa.
[chuckles]
Yeah, 'cause that will end well.
Be careful to not end up
as her third teacher
who's outed
as a massive pervert.
[SAKUTA] The only one
I'm devoted to is Mai.
[MITO] Is that really so?
If you think about it
nothing but your cute student
all day.
Is that not exactly
what she's been going after
Mr. Azusagawa?
DECEMBER 14TH
SHONAN PERSONAL INSTRUCTION
CRAM SCHOOL
Hey, Yamada.
That's unlike you.
You're usually the first
to go home after class.
Mr. Sakuta
you have a special class for
Himeji after this, don't you?
Yeah.
But that's because she's on
a different level from you two.
Is Himeji dating someone
right now?
If you want to know
the answer to that
you'll have to ask
Himeji herself, not me.
I can't ask her that.
That's why I'm asking you.
-Mr. Sakuta.
-[Yamada gasps]
Can I come in?
Perfect timing.
Yamada here has something
personal he wants to ask you.
Wait, Mr. Sakuta!
[stammers] It's nothing, really.
I'm gonna go home now.
Oh, Yamada.
Huh?
So you know, I'm not dating
anyone right now.
But there is someone
who's caught my eye.
That's all. Bye-bye!
That bit earlier
for dragging me into
that conversation, you know.
I'm not accusing you for that.
But you were looking at me
like, "You did it again."
If I can solve this
will I be able to fall in love
with people the way you do?
Well, actually, it'll prove
your current academic level.
Hmm.
[inaudible]
Now, then, to explain
from the first question--
Oh, so you used
that formula, right?
Right. This function
has nothing to do with it.
That question sort of reminds me
of you, Mr. Sakuta.
I think I have a much better
personality, though.
But that brazen part of you
is what's so appealing.
It's why I like you.
On to the next question.
How could you move on and ignore
a confession of love
from a student?
I don't dislike
how you also share
those same qualities, Himeji.
Now, the next question.
This is, um... Well...
Oh, Futaba. Hold on a sec.
What?
I'm having some trouble
with this question.
Would you mind explaining it
for me?
That's a questionable statement
from a cram school teacher
Help me out?
Do you get the gist of it now?
Yeah, I get it.
You're not the one I was asking.
Yes. Your lesson
was very helpful.
Himeji, you must have
good grades
-outside of math as well, right?
-Huh?
If you had a proper instructor
teaching you
I think you'd get accepted
to a prestigious university
as a high school third-year.
What is it you're trying
to say, sir?
What I mean is
Futaba is a much better teacher
than I am
and I'm sure you noticed too.
So having her teach you
might be better.
I want you, Mr. Sakuta
Is something wrong?
You guys okay?
My apologies.
There was a question
that I didn't study up on
so I had Miss Futaba
give me some assistance.
Is that so?
Yes.
Thank you very much.
Uh...
Mmm?
[FUTABA] You intentionally
made her angry.
What was the point of that?
[SAKUTA] Long story short
ultimately
After all, you mentioned it
yourself the other day.
There's a chance that someone
who developed puberty syndrome
because of Touko Kirishima
could put Mai in harm's way.
[FUTABA] And you think
that might be Himeji?
I can't say
that's the case for sure
but I still have no idea
what kind of puberty syndrome
she has.
I was thinking
if I shook her up a bit
I might see a clue
for solving the issue.
But even so, is it just me
or did it seem like she was
reacting rather excessively?
Well, that was
thanks to you, Futaba.
Uh, why?
According to what
Himeji told me
her puberty syndrome started
right after she got rejected
by Kasai.
[gasps]
If you're going to rope me
into a big mess like this
explain why
you're doing so first.
DECEMBER 15TH
[sighs]
I THINK MAI AND TOUKO
HAVE SIMILAR SINGING VOICES
There still isn't any
noteworthy information here.
Yo, Azusagawa.
What you looking up?
Something tedious.
You, Fukuyama?
Yeah, the Mr. and Miss Campus
contest at the school festival.
I found this website that
shows you all the winners
from the festivals
of previous years.
So you were comparing
the previous winners
to see who was the cutest?
That was my plan originally.
But last year's Miss Campus
doesn't have a profile
or picture on display.
The Mr. Campus does, though.
See? Isn't it strange?
Fukuyama, are you saying
you can't see that?
Can't see what? It's blank.
SOPHOMORE
MAJOR: INTERNATIONAL EDUCATION
Iwamizawa Nene?
[♪ closing theme song playing]
RASCAL DOES NOT DREAM
OF HIS STUDENT
[HIMEJI] Oh, Azusagawa
NEXT EPISODE
#10 HOLY NIGHT